# **Semester Reflection** 

I'm a Multidisciplinary Studies major with a concentration in Arts & Humanities, Communication, and Applied, Technical, & Professional. My goal with my degree is to find work in a New Media position. While filmmaking and design are my focus, I enjoy writing. As I've looked at post-graduation jobs, I've noticed that many require diverse writing skills.  I took this class to gain writing experience from a perspective that I hadn't tried before. 

When I signed up for *WRIT 4662W*, I didn't know much about technical writing.  I now have a better understanding of what it means to write with digital technology now. For example, This course helped me expand my knowledge of writing with HTML. I had a little experience with HTML from tinkering around with it when I was a teen. It was invigorating to expand on those skills by creating a website.   

I have gathered new strategies for engaging with new tools productively. I've learned that I don't like watching videos to learn. Watching a video is not productive for me as I'm someone who learns by doing. I really enjoyed the learning tools that were like the W3 Schools HTML and CSS tutorials. I've gained better ways to organize my thoughts and to be more productive. For example, I learned that I need two computer monitors. I use one screen for ideas and research and the other for writing.    

There are many things that I feel went well for me this semester. I loved learning about new platforms. For example, I enjoyed using Brackets to write HTML and Markdown. I found the interface intuitive and easy to use. On the other hand, Brackets will no longer be supported by Adobe after September 1st, so I need to find a new text editor. I was aware of what GitHub was before I took the class but didn't understand it. This course taught me that it was a powerful platform for digital writing and collaboration. 

Several things didn't go as well as I expected. I focused more on being perfect than accepting that there were things that I didn't understand. I also made things more complicated for myself than needed. I dream and think big when sometimes good enough is well, good enough.  
This class was a little challenging to do from home, as I had limited resources. As I mentioned earlier, I need two screens to work efficiently. However, I didn't get my second screen until halfway through the semester.  Not having a second screen made specific projects (like working with HTML) more difficult because there were so many moving parts.  Furthermore, my laptop is on the older side, so it struggled with some software, especially Oxygen. I struggled with DITA during the entire module. I think it's a great way of writing manuals. But it was a bit confusing to learn. The more I learned about the process, the less I understood.  
Additionally, my health issues got in the way. I suffer from migraines, which are hard when you have to look at a computer screen for long periods. I was able to make do when it came to readings ( I have text to speech software), but it was hard to work on projects when I was in a flare-up mode. 

I've learned a lot from this class. I got to build on my website-building skills with HTML, WordPress, CSS, etc. I learned DITA, which I had never heard of before taking this class. I learned new software like Figma, Brackets, MK Docs, etc. Working on collaborating on the Healy Website project gave me more working experience in collaborating as a team for writing projects, and I was grateful for the experience. I've worked on collaborative projects in the film world as a director, but I took a passive role in this project. As a result, I was able to take time to listen and focus on my tasks, which was a good learning experience. This course also taught me to be agile and versatile. 
 
I'm looking forward to building on my new skill this summer. I'm hoping to get an internship that will allow me to grow and gain more experience in content production and project management, preferably as a lead. I also plan to make my portfolio website with my writing samples and design content. My degree focuses on New Media, and I'd like to create a place to show off my work, personality, and versatility. Using the skills I gained from this class, I'd like to build the website myself using HTML or WordPress.  My goal is to find a job that will allow me to use these skills once I graduate in Fall 2021.
    
